# Summaries & Critiques
Going through this project, I refered to several sources for additional help. These sources were all digital, most of them blogs, recounting similar experiments using a Coral Dev Board. Below I outline these sources and offer some criticism; ideally the guide I have created below will serve as a more well-rounded and hollistic source of information for future researchers and users.

1. _Allan, Alasdair. How to use a Raspberry Pi to flash new firmware onto the Coral Dev Board. 26 March 2019. Digital Blog._
   
   This source serves as documentation for walking through the process of flashing your Coral Dev Board using a Raspberry Pi in place of tradition, recommended tools. Coral Documentation recommends using a Mac or Linux computer to flash your board, however Raspberry Pi's are robust and able to have Linux distributions flashed on to them, therefore enabling them to flash your Coral Dev Board. All things considered, this is a very good guide, and the creator even includes photos, inline code, and URLs for users following along. The biggest criticisms I find with this source is the relative lack of troubleshooting provided - realistically, many users are bound to encounter errors along the way (I certainly did), and offering a small list of common troubles and potential solutions could go a long way in assiting other users. This source inspired me to use images, inline code, and URLs in my own guide, but learning from shortcomings, I also address potential errors and offer steps and resources that I personally used to overcome these obstacles. 
   
2. _Silverlock, Matt. Connecting to a Coral TPU Dev Board with Windows. 23 March 2019. Digital Blog._
   
   This source provides excellent documentation on setting up your Coral Dev Board using a Windows machine. This post actually helped imensely with getting my own project off the ground, and the Coral Dev Board online documentation only provides resources for setting up using MacOS or Linux distributions, which would clearly be problematic considering most users (at least at Fontbonne University), will be on Windows 10. The guide offers plenty of inline code examples which is useful when copying/pasting commands on the Coral Dev Board over PuTTY, however there are absolutely no images or troubleshooting sections. As you can imagine, because this device was not created to be set up using a Windows 10 machine, there will almost undoubtedly be issues. I spent hours troubleshooting and scouring posts on GitHub and StackOverflow, and ultimately was able to figure out just enough to finish the process and flash my Coral Dev Board. Learning from these criticisms, I have included the issues I encountered, as well as the resources I used to overcome them. One final criticism with this piece is that the documentation ends somewhat abruptly without any real handoff to the users following along. In my guide below, I will walk users through all necessary set up, installations, and more, as well as include how-to's on running demo and example programs.
3. _Allan, Alasdair. Hands on with the Coral Dev Board. 26 March 2019. Digital Blog._
   
   This source is authored by the same individual who authored the first source, however in this piece he is going over the unboxing, setup, and hands on experience with the Coral Dev Board. Just like last time, the author provides a wealth of photos for users to easily follow along. In addition, the user offers some troubleshooting, mentioning that the Coral Dev Board kit does not include all the required accessories, and he explains in detail what other tools are needed to get everything up and running. I noticed as well the author encounters a common issue after flashing Mendel Linux on to the board - the fans will stop spinning, causing the board to quickly heat up and potentially thermal throttle. While he does not offer any solutions, I do note this error and offer my own solution in my guide below. The biggest takeaway for me is to focus on creating good documentation that assists future users - this includes double checking grammar and syntax, taking clear and concise images, thoroughly outline process and steps, and providing URLs and code when needed.

## Return to Root
You can return to the senior project root directory [here](https://github.com/thood21/SeniorProject)
